Add hardening guide for Rancher Webhook (#864)
rancher/rancher-docs: docs/reference-guides/rancher-security/rancher-webhook-hardening.md

---
title: Hardening the Rancher Webhook
---

> Rancher Webhook does not contain private information, but it can be vulnerable to DDoS attacks from inside the cluster. You can use network policies and authentication independently or in conjunction with each other to harden the webhook against attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rancher Webhook is an important component within Rancher, playing a role in enforcing security requirements for Rancher and its workloads. To decrease its attack surface, access to it should be limited to the only valid caller it has: the Kubernetes API server. This can be done by using network policies and authentication independently or in conjunction with each other to harden the webhook against attacks.
```

> ## Block external traffic using Network Policies

Author: :+1:

### Calico

Use the NetworkPolicy resource in the `crd.projectcalico.org/v1` API group. Use the selector `app == 'rancher-webhook'` to create a rule for the webhook, and set the CIDR of the control plane hosts as the ingress source:

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.projectcalico.org/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-k8s
  namespace: cattle-system
spec:
  selector: app == 'rancher-webhook'
  types:
    - Ingress
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      protocol: TCP
      source:
        nets:
        - 192.168.42.0/24 # CIDR of the control plane host. May list more than 1 if the hosts are in different subnets.
      destination:
        selector:
          app == 'rancher-webhook'
```

### Cilium

Use the CiliumNetworkPolicy resource in the `cilium.io/v2` API group. Add the `host` and `remote-node` keys to the `fromEntities` ingress rule. This blocks in-cluster and external traffic while allowing traffic from the hosts.

```yaml
apiVersion: "cilium.io/v2"
kind: CiliumNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-k8s
  namespace: cattle-system
spec:
  endpointSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: rancher-webhook
  ingress:
    - fromEntities:
      - host
      - remote-node
```

> ## Require the Kubernetes API server to authenticate itself to the webhook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Require the Kubernetes API Server to Authenticate to the Webhook
```

> ## Require the Kubernetes API server to authenticate itself to the webhook

Author: :+1:

> The webhook should only accept requests from the Kubernetes API server. By default, the webhook doesn't require clients to authenticate to it. It will accept accept any request and return a response to the API server. You can configure the webhook to require credentials so that only the API server can access it. More information can be found in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#authenticate-apiservers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The webhook should only accept requests from the Kubernetes API server. By default, the webhook doesn't require clients to authenticate to it. It will accept any request and return a response to the caller - that being the API server or not. You can configure the webhook to require credentials so that only the API server can access it. More information can be found in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#authenticate-apiservers).
```

Author: My wording about returning the response directly to the API server was wrong, but I was trying to express the potential indirect negative impact on the api server. Reworded to simplify the whole thing.

> The webhook should only accept requests from the Kubernetes API server. By default, the webhook doesn't require clients to authenticate to it, it will accept any request. You can configure the webhook to require credentials so that only the API server can access it. More information can be found in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#authenticate-apiservers).

Author: :+1:

> 1. Configure the API server to present a client certificate to the webhook, pointing to an AdmissionConfiguration file to configure the ValidatingAdmissionWebhook and MutatingAdmissionWebhook plugins:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Configure the API server to present a client certificate to the webhook, pointing to an `AdmissionConfiguration` file to configure the `ValidatingAdmissionWebhook` and `MutatingAdmissionWebhook` plugins:
```

> ```
> # /etc/rancher/admission/admission.yaml
> apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
> kind: AdmissionConfiguration
> plugins:
> - name: ValidatingAdmissionWebhook
>   configuration:
>     apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
>     kind: WebhookAdmissionConfiguration
>     kubeConfigFile: "/etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig"
> - name: MutatingAdmissionWebhook
>   configuration:
>     apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
>     kind: WebhookAdmissionConfiguration
>     kubeConfigFile: "/etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig"
> ```
> 
> This is also the same config file where other admission plugins are configured, such as PodSecurity. If your distro or your setup uses additional admission plugins, configure those as well. For example, add [RKE2's PodSecurity configuration](https://docs.rke2.io/security/pod_security_standards) to this file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
    # /etc/rancher/admission/admission.yaml
    apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
    kind: AdmissionConfiguration
    plugins:
    - name: ValidatingAdmissionWebhook
      configuration:
        apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
        kind: WebhookAdmissionConfiguration
        kubeConfigFile: "/etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig"
    - name: MutatingAdmissionWebhook
      configuration:
        apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
        kind: WebhookAdmissionConfiguration
        kubeConfigFile: "/etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig"
    ```

    This is also the same config file where other admission plugins are configured, such as PodSecurity. If your distro or your setup uses additional admission plugins, configure those as well. For example, add [RKE2's PodSecurity configuration](https://docs.rke2.io/security/pod_security_standards) to this file.
```

Added some indentation some the code block and text on line 81 align with the text on line 62 when rendered.

2. Create the kubeconfig file that the admission plugins refer to. Rancher Webhook only supports client certificate authentication, so generate a TLS key pair, and set the kubeconfig to use either `client-certificate` and `client-key` or `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data`. For example:

> ```
> # /etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Config
> users:
> - name: 'rancher-webhook.cattle-system.svc'
>   user:
>     client-certificate: /path/to/client/cert
>     client-key: /path/to/client/key
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
    # /etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Config
    users:
    - name: 'rancher-webhook.cattle-system.svc'
      user:
        client-certificate: /path/to/client/cert
        client-key: /path/to/client/key
    ```
```

> 3. Start the kube-apiserver binary with the flag `--admission-control-config-file` pointing to your AdmissionConfiguration file. The way to do this varies by distro, and isn't supported for some distros, such as hosted Kubernetes providers. Consult the documentation for your Kubernetes distribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Start the kube-apiserver binary with the flag `--admission-control-config-file` pointing to your AdmissionConfiguration file. The way to do this varies by distribution, and isn't supported for some distributions, such as hosted Kubernetes providers. Consult the documentation for your Kubernetes distribution.
```

> 3. Start the kube-apiserver binary with the flag `--admission-control-config-file` pointing to your AdmissionConfiguration file. The way to do this varies by distribution, and isn't supported for some distributions, such as hosted Kubernetes providers. Consult the documentation for your Kubernetes distribution.

Reviewer: Maybe?
```suggestion
3. Start the kube-apiserver binary with the flag `--admission-control-config-file` pointing to your AdmissionConfiguration file. The way to do this varies by distribution, and it isn't supported universally, such as in hosted Kubernetes providers. Consult the documentation for your Kubernetes distribution.
```

Author: :+1:

>   For RKE2, `rke2-server` can be started with a config file like so:
> 
> ```
> # /etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml
> kube-apiserver-arg:
> - admission-control-config-file=/etc/rancher/admission/admission.yaml
> kube-apiserver-extra-mount:
> - /etc/rancher/admission:/etc/rancher/admission:ro
> ```
> 
> :::warning
> Some distros set this flag by default. If your distro provisions its own AdmissionConfiguration, you must include it in your custom admission control config file. For example, RKE2 installs an AdmissionConfiguration file at `/etc/rancher/rke2/rke2-pss.yaml`, which configures the PodSecurity admission plugin. Setting `admission-control-config-file` in config.yaml will override this essential security setting. To include both plugins, consult [the Default Pod Security Standards documentation](https://docs.rke2.io/security/pod_security_standards) and copy the appropriate plugin configuration to your admission.yaml.
> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For RKE2, `rke2-server` can be started with a config file like so:

    ```yaml
    # /etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml
    kube-apiserver-arg:
    - admission-control-config-file=/etc/rancher/admission/admission.yaml
    kube-apiserver-extra-mount:
    - /etc/rancher/admission:/etc/rancher/admission:ro
    ```

    :::danger

    Some distros set this flag by default. If your distro provisions its own AdmissionConfiguration, you must include it in your custom admission control config file. For example, RKE2 installs an AdmissionConfiguration file at `/etc/rancher/rke2/rke2-pss.yaml`, which configures the PodSecurity admission plugin. Setting `admission-control-config-file` in config.yaml will override this essential security setting. To include both plugins, consult [the Default Pod Security Standards documentation](https://docs.rke2.io/security/pod_security_standards) and copy the appropriate plugin configuration to your admission.yaml.

    :::
```

>     Some distros set this flag by default. If your distro provisions its own AdmissionConfiguration, you must include it in your custom admission control config file. For example, RKE2 installs an AdmissionConfiguration file at `/etc/rancher/rke2/rke2-pss.yaml`, which configures the PodSecurity admission plugin. Setting `admission-control-config-file` in config.yaml will override this essential security setting. To include both plugins, consult [the Default Pod Security Standards documentation](https://docs.rke2.io/security/pod_security_standards) and copy the appropriate plugin configuration to your admission.yaml.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Some distributions set this flag by default. If your distribution provisions its own AdmissionConfiguration, you must include it in your custom admission control config file. For example, RKE2 installs an AdmissionConfiguration file at `/etc/rancher/rke2/rke2-pss.yaml`, which configures the PodSecurity admission plugin. Setting `admission-control-config-file` in config.yaml will override this essential security setting. To include both plugins, consult [the Default Pod Security Standards documentation](https://docs.rke2.io/security/pod_security_standards) and copy the appropriate plugin configuration to your admission.yaml.
```

4. If you're using Rancher to provision your cluster using existing nodes, create these files on the node before you provision them.

>   If you're using Rancher to provision your cluster on new nodes, allow the provisioning to complete, then use the provided SSH key and IP address to connect to the nodes, and place the RKE2 config file in the `/etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml.d/` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If you're using Rancher to provision your cluster on new nodes, allow the provisioning to complete, then use the provided SSH key and IP address to connect to the nodes, and place the RKE2 config file in the `/etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml.d/` directory.
```

5. After the cluster is configured with these credentials, configure the Rancher cluster agent to enable authentication in the webhook. Create a file containing these chart values:

> ```
> # values.yaml
> auth:
>   clientCA: <base64-encoded certificate authority that signed the kube-apiserver's client certificates>
>   allowedCNs:
>   - <list of Common Names identifying the kube-apiserver's client certificates.>
>   - <if not provided, any cert signed by the given CA will be accepted.>
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
    # values.yaml
    auth:
      clientCA: <base64-encoded certificate authority that signed the kube-apiserver's client certificates>
      allowedCNs:
      - <list of Common Names identifying the kube-apiserver's client certificates.>
      - <if not provided, any cert signed by the given CA will be accepted.>
    ```
```

6. Create a configmap in the `cattle-system` namespace on the provisioned cluster with these values:

> ```
> kubectl --namespace cattle-system create configmap --from-file=rancher-webhook=values.yaml
> ```
> 
> The webhook will restart with these values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```
    kubectl --namespace cattle-system create configmap --from-file=rancher-webhook=values.yaml
    ```

    The webhook will restart with these values.
```

---
title: Hardening the Rancher Webhook
---

Rancher Webhook contains no secret information, but it can be vulnerable to
DDOS attacks from inside the cluster. The two hardening options below, network
policies and authentication, can be used independently or in conjunction to add

> protection to the webhook service.

Author: :+1:

## Block external traffic using Network Policies

The webhook is only expected to accept requests from the Kubernetes API server.
By default, however, the webhook can accept traffic from any source. If you are
using a CNI that supports Network Policies, you can create a policy that blocks
traffic not originating from the API server.

The built-in NetworkPolicy resource in Kubernetes does not have the ability to
block or admit traffic from the cluster hosts, and the kube-apiserver process
is always running on the host network. Therefore, we need to leverage the
advanced network policy resources from the CNI in use. Examples for Calico and

> Cilium follow. Consult the documentation for your CNI for more details.

Author: :+1:

### Calico

For Calico, use the NetworkPolicy resource in the crd.projectcalico.org/v1 API
group. Use selector "app == 'rancher-webhook'" to create a rule for the

> webhook, and use the CIDR of the control plane hosts as the ingress source:

Author: :+1:

```
apiVersion: crd.projectcalico.org/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-k8s
  namespace: cattle-system
spec:
  selector: app == 'rancher-webhook'
  types:
    - Ingress
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      protocol: TCP
      source:
        nets:
        - 192.168.42.0/24 # CIDR of the control plane host. May list more than 1 if the hosts are in different subnets.
      destination:
        selector:
          app == 'rancher-webhook'
```

### Cilium

For Cilium, add the keys "host" and "remote-node" to the "fromEntities" ingress
rule. This ensures that only traffic from the hosts will be admitted, while in-cluster or

> external traffic will be blocked.

Author: :+1:

```
apiVersion: "cilium.io/v2"
kind: CiliumNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-k8s
  namespace: cattle-system
spec:
  endpointSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: rancher-webhook
  ingress:
    - fromEntities:
      - host
      - remote-node
```

## Require the Kubernetes API server to authenticate itself to the webhook

The webhook should only accept requests from the Kubernetes API server. By
default, it does not require clients to authenticate to it, and will therefore
accept any request and return a response to the API server. The webhook can be
configured to require credentials so that only the API server can access it.
More information can be found in the [kubernetes
documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#authenticate-apiservers).

First, the API server must be configured to present a client
certificate to the webhook, pointing to an AdmissionConfiguration file to

> configure the ValidatingAdmissionWebhook and MutatingAdmissionWebhook plugins:

Author: :+1:

```
# /etc/rancher/admission/admission.yaml
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: AdmissionConfiguration
plugins:
- name: ValidatingAdmissionWebhook
  configuration:
    apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
    kind: WebhookAdmissionConfiguration
    kubeConfigFile: "/etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig"
- name: MutatingAdmissionWebhook
  configuration:
    apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
    kind: WebhookAdmissionConfiguration
    kubeConfigFile: "/etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig"
```

This is also the same config file where other admission plugins are configured,
like PodSecurity. If your distro or your setup uses additional admission
plugins, configure those here as well. For example, add [RKE2's PodSecurity
configuration]() to this file.

Create the kubeconfig file that the admission plugins refer to. Rancher Webhook
only supports client certificate authentication, so generate a TLS key pair,
and set the kubeconfig to use either "client-certificate" and "client-key" or

> "client-certificate-data" and "client-key-data". For example:

Author: :+1:

```
# /etc/rancher/admission/kubeconfig
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
users:
- name: 'rancher-webhook.cattle-system.svc'
  user:
    client-certificate: /path/to/client/cert
    client-key: /path/to/client/key
```

Start the kube-apiserver binary with the flag `--admission-control-config-file`
pointing to your AdmissionConfiguration file. The way to do this will vary by
distro, and it may not be supported for some distros, such as hosted Kubernetes
providers. Consult the documentation for your Kubernetes distribution.

> For RKE2, for example, rke2-server can be started with a config file like so:

Author: I'd like to keep "some distros", since hosted providers is not an exhaustive list of distros that might not support this.

```
# /etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml
kube-apiserver-arg:
- admission-control-config-file=/etc/rancher/admission/admission.yaml
kube-apiserver-extra-mount:
- /etc/rancher/admission:/etc/rancher/admission:ro
```

:::warning
Some distros might already set this flag by default. If your distro
provisions its own AdmissionConfiguration, make sure to include it in your
custom admission control config file. For instance, RKE2 installs an
AdmissionConfiguration file at /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2-pss.yaml, which
configures the PodSecurity admission plugin. Setting
admission-control-config-file in config.yaml will override this setting, which
is an essential security setting. To include both plugins, consult [the Default
Pod Security Standards documentation](https://docs.rke2.io/security/pod_security_standards) and copy
the appropriate plugin configuration to your admission.yaml.

> :::

Author: :+1:

If you are using Rancher to provision your cluster using existing nodes, create
these files on the node before running the provision command on them.

If you are using Rancher to provision your cluster on new nodes, allow the
provisioning to complete, then use the provided SSH key and IP address to
connect to the nodes, and place the RKE2 config file in the
/etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml.d/ directory.

When the cluster is configured with these credentials, configure the Rancher

> cluster agent to enable authentication in the webhook. Create a file containing these chart values:

Author: :+1:

```
# values.yaml
auth:
  clientCA: <base64-encoded certificate authority that signed the kube-apiserver's client certificates>
  allowedCNs:
  - <list of Common Names identifying the kube-apiserver's client certificates.>
  - <if not provided, any cert signed by the given CA will be accepted.>
```

> Create a configmap in the cattle-system namespace on the provisioned cluster with these values:

Author: :+1:

```
kubectl --namespace cattle-system create configmap --from-file=rancher-webhook=values.yaml
```

> The webhook will be restarted with these values.

Author: :+1:
